
1. What is Jenkins?
Jenkins is an open-source free automation tool used to build and test software projects.
 The tool makes it painless for developers to integrate changes to the project.
 Jenkins' primary focus is to keep track of the version control system and initiate and monitor a build system if there are any changes.
 It keeps an eye on the entire process and provides reports and notifications to alert.

Some typical reasons as to why Jenkins is so widely used are:

Developers and testers use Jenkins to detect defects in the software development lifecycle and automate the testing of builds. 
They use it to continuously monitor the code in real-time and integrate changes into the build.
Jenkins as it turns out, is a great fit for building a CI/CD pipeline because of its plugin-capabilities, and simple-to-use nature.
Post Graduate Program in DevOps
Designed in collaboration with Caltech CTMEEXPLORE COURSE
2. What are the features of Jenkins?
Some of the crucial features of Jenkins are the following:

It is a free and open-source automation tool
Jenkins provides a vast number of plugins
It is easy to set up and install on multiple operating systems
Provides pipeline support
Fast release cycles 
Easy upgrades
3. What is Groovy in Jenkins?
Apache Groovy is a dynamic object-oriented programming language used as a scripting language for Java platforms. 
Groovy is used to orchestrate the Jenkins pipeline and enables different teams to contribute to the work in different languages. 
Groovy's syntax is very similar to that of Java, making it more seamless with the Java interface. 
The language has several features like Java compatibility and Development support.
Also Read: All You Need to Know for Choosing the First Programming Language to Learn

4. How do you install Jenkins?
Follow the steps mentioned below to install Jenkins:

Install Java 
Install Apache Tomcat Server
Download Jenkins war File
Deploy Jenkins war File
5. Which commands can be used to begin Jenkins?
Here are the commands used to start Jenkins:

Open the command prompt
After the command prompt opens, browse to the directory where Jenkins war is present
Then run the following command:
D:\>Java -jar Jenkins.war

6. What is "Continuous Integration" with reference to Jenkins?
Continuous Integration is a development practice where the codes can be integrated into a shared repository. 
The practice uses automated verifications for the early detection of code problems. 
Continuous Integration triggers the build to find and identify bugs present in the code.
It adds consistency to the build process.
It’s a means to build things faster and prevents broken code.
CI

Free Course: Introduction to DevOps Tools
Master the Fundamentals of DevOps ToolsENROLL NOW
7. What are the differences between Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, and Continuous Deployment?
Continuous Integration

Continuous Delivery

Continuous Deployment

Continuous Integration (CI) is a DevOps software development practice that permits developers to combine/merge the changes to their code in the central repository to run automated builds and tests.

Continuous Delivery (CD) refers to the building, testing, and delivering improvements to the software code. The most critical part of the CD is that the code is always in a deployable state.

Continuous Deployment (CD) is the ultimate stage in the DevOps pipeline. It  refers to automatic
